USER GUIDE

Last Update: June 5, 2018 

This public repository contains a user-guided tool for semi-automated cerebral microbleed detection and volume segmentation.
The algorithm was developed by Dr. Janine Lupo's group in the Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging at the University of California San Francisco. 

AUTHORS/CONTRIBUTORS:
Wei Bian, Melanie A. Morrison, Xiaowei Zhu 
Sivakami Avadiappan, Yicheng Chen, Seyedmehdi Payabvash, Mihir Shah, Christopher. P. Hess, Janine M. Lupo 

REVELANT PUBLICATIONS:
Bian et al. 2013 NeuroImage:Clinical 2:282–290 - describes original detection algorithm 
Morrison et al. 2018 (submitted work) - outlines updates made to Bian et al. *latest verison of algorithm*

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DESCRIPTION: 
The algorithm intiates with a Fast Radial Symmetry Transform to detect and locate the centers of all putative CMB candidates (note: the transform has been modified to detect dark lesion on a bright background). Each candidate then undergoes region growing, and hand-crafted features (e.g. circularity, size, centroid shift) are used to descriminate true CMBs from false positives. While this removes many false positives, a handful still remain at this stage.
The remaining candidates are then segmented using a local thresholding technique to quantify individual volumes, and further classify CMBs into one of three categories: 1) A CMB belonging to a single slice, 2) A traveling CMB, or otherwise 3) A possible true CMB or hard mimic. These categories will aid the user in classifying the candidate CMBs in the next step, and of interest with respect to reporting CMB characteristics.
In the final step, the user is visually presented, one-by-one, with a candidate CMB (and a description of the category they fall under), and asked to classify the candidate as a true CMB or false positive using 'y' and 'n' keyboard responses. The user can also use scrolling to move through the image slices and/or zoom by clicking and simultaneously dragging the mouse upward or downward.

FORMAT(s): compiled MATLAB executable file 
TOOLBOXs: MATLAB NIFTI toolbox, MATLAB IMAGINE image viewer

INPUT: The algorithm accepts a single, non-projected volumetric T2*-weighted or SWI dataset in NIFTI format (.nii). 
OUTPUT: Primary outputs include a binary mask of individual CMB candidates, a false positive mask, and a text file outlining the results. 

USAGE: Run the compiler.
       Window will pop up with..
       Results with be automatically generated in ...

TEST SET: The test set includes 10 brain tumor dataset with radiotherapy-induced cerebral microbleed. Five were acquired on a 3T GE system (P01-P05), the other 5 were acquired on a 7T GE system (P06-P10).

